---
layout: post
title: Integrating React Apps to Jekyll
date: 2024-09-10 00:10:33
description: React can be used to create static web apps, which should be a wonderful match with Jekyll. This post shows how to combine them together.
tags: React
categories: React
tabs: true
featured: true
react_app:
  js: "tic-tac-toe/js/main.8f2d87ee.js"
  css: "tic-tac-toe/css/main.16637662.css"
---

## Intuition

React, with its ability to build powerful client-side web apps, pairs perfectly with Jekyll, a static site generator. This combination opens up a world of possibilities for creating dynamic and engaging websites. This guide will walk you through seamlessly integrating a React app into your Jekyll site.

## Understanding React's Output

For a React app, it can either drive the entire website or just a single DOM element's content. In our case, we'll focus on the latter.

After implementing the desired features in React, we generate a production build using:

```bash
npm run build
```

This process produces static files, including JavaScript and CSS, which contain the code and styles necessary for our React app.

To effectively manage the app within a static site, it's best practice to assign a specific, meaningful ID to the DOM element that serves as the root of our React app. This prevents potential conflicts and enhances clarity. For instance:

```html
<div id="tic-tac-toe"></div>
```

## Integrating with Jekyll

To seamlessly integrate a React app into a Jekyll post, we'll leverage Jekyll's support for HTML code within Markdown files. This allows us to simply insert a `<div>` tag at the desired location within our post. This `<div>` will then serve as the container for our React app's content and functionality.

## Customizing Jekyll

To enable this functionality, we need to make some customizations to our Jekyll setup.

First, we'll add structured YAML fields to the header section of any post containing a React app. These fields will provide information about the app, such as the paths to its JavaScript and CSS files:

```yaml
react_app:
  js: "tic-tac-toe/js/main.db502a90.js"
  css: "tic-tac-toe/css/main.9c5c5444.css"
```

To seamlessly integrate our React app, we need to ensure Jekyll loads the necessary static files (JavaScript and CSS). Jekyll uses a templating language called Liquid to generate each page.

We'll leverage Liquid to conditionally include `<script>` and `<link>` tags for our React app's JavaScript and CSS files, respectively. This ensures the resources are only loaded on pages containing a React app.

{% raw %}

```liquid
{% if page.react_app %}
  {% assign react_app = page.react_app %}
  {% assign js_file_path = react_app.js %}
  {% assign css_file_path = react_app.css %}
  {% if js_file_path %}
    <script src="{{ js_file_path | prepend: '/assets/app/' }}"></script>
  {% endif %}
  {% if css_file_path %}
    <link rel="stylesheet" href="{{ css_file_path | prepend: '/assets/app/' }}">
  {% endif %}
{% endif %}
```

{% endraw %}

## Organizing React App Files

Place the generated js and css files from your React build into a dedicated folder within your Jekyll site's assets directory. A good practice is to create an app folder to hold all React apps, with sub-folders for each individual app.

```zsh
app
└── tic-tac-toe
    ├── css
    │   ├── main.7ab81f49.css
    │   └── main.7ab81f49.css.map
    └── js
        ├── main.ae3dae8c.js
        ├── main.ae3dae8c.js.LICENSE.txt
        └── main.ae3dae8c.js.map
```

## Launching Your React App

With these steps completed, your React app should now function seamlessly within your Jekyll site. Simply place the `<div>` with the corresponding ID where you want your app to appear in your Jekyll post.

<div id="tic-tac-toe"></div>
